In the last few videos, we've seen
how to store time information in
our SQLite database.
Now we've stored the times in UTC,
and so there are a couple of ways to display
those times in a user's local timezone.
Now, often, that will be all you need to do.
You may need to recover the original
date and time that was entered for
some applications, so I've included
this challenge to show you a way to do that
without using another external library.
Now there's another reason that I've
included this, but I can't actually
tell you what it is just yet without giving too much away.
All right, so let's swing over to the challenge.
All right, so the challenge is to
store time information in the database
so that the original time can be reconstructed.
Now, whatever else you decide to store,
you must continue to store the UTC
time, that's the only reliable
way to store time so that they're
all correct relative to each other.
So you wanna go ahead and modify the
rollback programme so that it includes
an extra column in the database.
Now the extra column should be used
to store either timezone information
or the original times offset from UTC or the tzinfo.
It's really up to you what you store.
So modify the code to store the correct
information, then modify checkdb to
retrieve the original time and
display it along with the UTC time.
Now remember to close any open tables
and delete the database in the
project pane before running your
modified programme for the first time.
And a few hints here.
Firstly, if you're considering storing
a timezone name in the database, stop and reconsider.
You can waste a lot of time finding out that it won't work.
Now, you may also, as the second hint,
want to review the videos on pickle
in section ten, although it is possible
to solve this challenge without actually using pickle.
Now we're gonna need rollback.py and
checkdb.py a little bit later, so make
sure you copy them into new files
before making any changes here,
or just to ensure that you've actually got a backup.
So that's the challenge.
Pause the video, see how you go, and
I'll see you when you get back.
So pause the video now.
All right, so how did you get on?
Hopefully, you managed to solve it.
So I'm gonna start out by saying
there's at least three approaches to this problem.
Now the simplest is probably just to
store the local time as a String, just
as we did when we stored them a few videos ago.
So if you've done it that way,
and stored local time in addition to UTC,
then well done for solving the challenge.
Now I'm not gonna use that approach
because we've seen the code to do that
already, so I wouldn't be showing you anything new.
Another approach is to store the
time offset in another column.
So you can use an awaretimes UTC offset
method to get the offset and even
store that as a date-time value,
or call the total_seconds method
to get a float value of the number of seconds.
And if you've done that, then add
the offset back to work out the
original time, that's also a valid
solution to the challenge, well done if you've done that.
But I'm also not gonna do it that
way either, because that approach
is very similar to what I am going to
do, which is something perhaps you may not have thought of.
So the approach I'm gonna take you is
to store the original time's tzinfo.
Now, an awaretime value contains
timezone information in its tzinfo object.
That's what makes it aware, rather than naive.
Now, we couldn't just go writing
class instances into a database
column, because that doesn't work.
But what we can do is pickle a class
instance, then this converts the instance
into a byte stream that can be stored in a database column.
So think of it as similar to serialising a class
instance in Java, if you're familiar with that language.
Now, as I mentioned in the description
for the challenge, we looked at the
pickle module back in section ten,
so consequently, we're gonna use
the pickle dumps() function to
convert the tzinfo into a byte stream
that loads to convert it back again
after reading it from the database.
Now whichever approach we take, we need
to add a new column to the database,
so let's start with that.
Now, as I also mentioned in the challenge
description, we need these original
files later, so I'm gonna take a copy of this.
That's firstly starting with rollback.py.
Click on that.
Right click and select Copy.
And then I'm just going to do a Paste.
And instead of rollback.py, let's call this one tztest.
And therefore we've still got
the original file if we need it.
All right, so our pickled object is
a ByteStream, so I'll need to use an integer column for it.
Now, it doesn't really matter as we've
seen, but choosing the most appropriate
type documents your intent, even
if SQLite really doesn't care.
So, seeing as we're at the top of
this file at the moment, I'm going
to add the pickle import first.
Import pickle.
Then what we wanna do here is change
the code for our history table, because
that's the one we're gonna be changing.
So we've got amount text NOT NULL integer NOT NULL.
And what we're gonna do is we're gonna
add a new line there, and what we'll
do just to be consistent here is we're
gonna space at the start of this line.
And we're gonna add the zone column.
Timezone, so we're gonna call it zone
INTEGER NOT NULL and then put a
comma there, and leave the rest the line.
The PRIMARY KEY TIME, ACCOUNT
because we don't need to change that.
All right, so we've defined the new
column for the database, for our history table.
Next, we need a tzinfo object for the local timezone.
Now, we can get that by converting our UTC
to local time, so consequently,
we probably wanna modify the current_time method.
So first, if we're just gonna comment out this return.
Comment all that out, and the code
we're gonna put here is gonna be
UTCTime is equal to pytz.UTC.localize().
That's gonna be datetime.datetime.utcNow().
Then we want our local time, so local_time
is equal to UTC_time.stimezone().
And then we want zone to be equal to local_time.tzinfo.
And then we actually wanna return UTC_time comma space zone.
So you can see that what we're now
doing is returning the UTC time and the zone as a table
on line 27, and the ability to
use tables to return several values
at once is a pretty neat feature in python.
All right, so the final change we need
to make is here in this save_update,
and what we need to do is unpack
the two values returned from the current_time
method, and then pickle its own.
So to do that, I'm gonna change this line
a little bit so deposit_time comma space
zone is equal to accounts._currentTime and
basically what that's doing there,
just so we're clear, we're now unpacking the returned table.
And then we need to pickle the zone.
We do that by typing pickle_zone
is equal to pickle.dumps(zone).
And then we need to change our insert,
so we've got insert into history,
we've got three columns there.
We need to add the fourth for the zone, a comma
and another question mark, and
then all we need to do that is add
that after amount, comma space pickled_zone.
So I've now updated their history
table and added the fourth column.
And that's actually it.
We're now storing the original
timezone information in the database.
So before running the programme, what
we need to do is close any open database table tabs.
Which we've got at least one open
here, which is the history one, so I'll close that.
Then we also need to delete the
database, and we can actually do that
over here in the project pane, so let's
come over here to accounts.SQLite.
Right click and select delete, and that's
because we're recreating the structure again.
So delete that entirely.
Click on Do Refactor, and that's now deleted.
So if you run the programme again now,
or at least run it for the first time,
we've got our database back again.
If we click on Databases, we've got our
accounts table here, and if you're getting
something weird happening there, you
may have to refresh the table, even
though we've deleted it, and that would
be if IntelliJ was giving you some warnings.
Which wasn't happening here, but if you
are getting that problem, just click on
Refresh and that should fix the problem.
But now if we look at our history table,
we can see we've got the extra column there
zone, and if we open this up, the
history table, you'll notice that the
zone column does look a little bit funny.
And the reason for that, it's not really
intended to be read by humans.
Now that's one reason why we didn't pick the
accounts object and store each
one in a single database column.
You can't really query and filter pickled
values, so they're not really a suitable
replacement for storing the
individual attributes of your class.
All right, so let's have a look at checkdb.
And what we're gonna do here, and I'll just
close this database over to the right here.
We're gonna take a copy of this as well,
so we've still got the original to work with.
So let's right click that, select Copy,
and then Paste, and we'll call this one tzcheck.
And what we're gonna do now is
change this code to read the data back again.
So firstly, we need to add a couple imports.
So import pytz, then we also wanna import pickle.
Next, we need to look at our tables,
and now we're not gonna be looking at the view.
We want to actually look at the table again.
So I'm gonna delete local history
and make that history, and we'll delete
this print now because we're gonna be changing that.
So I'm gonna start by typing UTC_time is equal to row zero.
Zero in left and right brackets.
And pickled_zone is equal to row three.
And zone equals pickle.loads().
That's gonna be pickled_zone.
Local_time is equal to pytz.UTC.localize, and
it's gonna be UTCTime.stimezone, and passing zone to that.
And then we wanna print some of this
stuff out, so I'm gonna do print
replacement fields, curly braces, slash T.
And now instead of replacement
fields, two curly braces again.
And another one, slash T, and curly
braces again, and the output's gonna
be .format UTC_time, local_time, and then local_time.tzinfo.
And that should be that.
I meant it to be a right parentheses there.
Okay.
So I firstly, I added the two imports
for pytz and pickle on line 213.
And we also changed the query, as you
saw on line 8, so that we're not
using the view anymore, but we're
actually using the table that we've updated.
Next step was to get our UTCDateTime value,
and that's the first row of the table,
and we also want the zone
information, which was the fourth item.
Now in practise, you'd probably wanna unpack
all four columns into variables, but
we're not really interested in the
account and amount columns at the moment,
so we've actually ignored those.
And we then, on line 13, I'm pickling the zone
data using the pickle module's loads() function.
And then we used the tzinfo zone object
when we called stimezone on line 14 to
revert the UTC time back to the
time in its original timezone.
So let's just run that.
I can see here that I had printed
the timezone after UTC time and local
time, just as a check that we're
getting the original tzinfo object back.
And you can see that when I've run that,
you can see the original time, which
was with an offset of 10 hours 30,
10 column 30, from the ACDT timezone,
which is the Australian Central Daylight Time,
which, of course, is my timezone.
All right, so that's the challenge completed.
Now, I mentioned that one of the possible
solutions was storing timezone
names and why it's a waste of time.
Let's actually talk about that more in the
next video and see why that's not
a good idea to actually work with.
So I'll see you in that next video.